# Technical Notes
This document contains technical notes for the control. It describes how the control can be extended, maintained and published.

## Who should read this?
This document is primarily interesting for developers who want to contribute to this project or want to understand how Internal things work.
Additionally it may be interesting for people who also want to write a UI5 control.

## Folder structure
```
/control
  control file(s) like <contolName>.js
  /js (additional js files)
  /css (less and css files)
  /<others> (other files that are needed for running the control)
  /docu
    /api
    /other
test (unit and integration tests)
demo
  explored (demo for the explored app)
  others (other demo applications)
```
In the root folder you further find the following files.
* README.md - This file is the starting point for users of the control. It describes the control itself, the basic ussage and the installation.
* package.json - This file is used by npm (Node package manager) and bower (JavaScript dependency manager) to make development and maintenance easier.    Besides some project metadata it contains devDependencies to tools that are useful to development this control and some scripts to simplify tasks during development.
* LICENSE - This is the license file for the control.  

## Development / Enhancements
To develop or maintain this control you should at first clone the git repository with  
```
git clone https://github.com/htammen/ui5_control_map.git
```
Then nothing more than an editor is necessary. But developers life is much easier with some node.js tools. Therefore we recommend to [install node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/) (if you are a web developer you already did some years ago ;-) ). The following sections assume that you have installed node.js on your local system.  

After you installed node.js move to the project directory and run npm install.
```
cd ui5_control_map
npm install
```
This downloads all devDependencies defined in the package.json file from the npm repository. At the moment these are
* jsdoc - Tool to generate API documentation
* docstrap - nice template for jsdoc
* bower - for managing your control

After you've done this you can start developing. As mentioned above all the source files are located in the folder 'control'.

## Documentation
We have two types of documentation
* User documentation
* Developer documentation

The user documentation is currently enclosed in the [README.md](README.md) file.  
You find the developer documentation which is basically the api in `control/docu/api`. This documentation is generated by jsdoc.  
To regenerate the current the api docs simply run
```
npm run jsdoc
```
on the command line of the projects root folder.


## Publishing
Publishing the control into a public repository is done with [Bower](http://bower.io).  
Bower is a widely spread component management system that allows developers to easily find and import components into their projects.
The sourcecode of the projects is still on Github or whatever repository you choose. Bower just has a directory of components and allows
to install and manage them.   
All Bower components are installed into a directory called `bower_components`. Under this folder you find all your installed bower_components /
community UI5 controls.  

This control is already registered under the name `ui5-ctrl-svg-map`.  
Entering `bower info ui5-ctrl-svg-map` at the command line gives you this or similar output.
```
{
  name: 'ui5-ctrl-svg-map',
  homepage: 'https://github.com/htammen/ui5_control_map',
  version: '0.8.0'
}

Available versions:
  - 0.8.2
  - 0.8.1
  - 0.8.0
```
Your users can now use the control in different versions.  

### Component Naming Conventions
Bower does not have a namespace support yet. Therefore it is usual practice that components use a dash - seperated naming to differ from each other and to build a sort of hierachy.  
For the UI5 controls it is recommended to use this naming convention.  
`ui5-ctrl-<area>-<subarea>-<subarea-2>-...<ctrl name>`  
Explanation:  
* `ui5`: a fix value for all UI5 bower components
* `ctrl`: a fix value for UI5 controls. There may be other artefacts in the future.
* `<area>`: an area chosen by the developer to make clear which type of control this is.
* `<subarea>..<subarea-N>`: subareas, it's up to the developers preference to use them
* `<ctrl-name>`: name of the control.

This control is named `ui5-ctrl-svg-map` which means:  
* `ui5`: fix
* `ctrl`: fix
* `svg`: control belongs to the area SVG
* `map`: the control is named map.
